**PROJECT OVERVIEW**



GENERAL IDEA

Webscrapes RateMyProfessor website for UT Austin professors and ranks them by score, and then number of ratings if the scores are the same. Can be filtered by the major each professor teaches. I also plan to allow scores to be looked up by typing in a professor's last name or to output a list of professors ranked by their score given a certain major.



DATASETS

Datasets will be generated by the webscraping code and stored as a .csv file to be analyzed by the main portion of the code. This is because ratings constantly change with each new review, so the dataset can't stay stagnant.



METHODS & LIBRARIES

The main packages I will be using for this are Selenium to webscrape RMP and Pandas to create the .csv file. I also am using Chrome and chromedriver in order to webscrape. I may add more libraries as I work through each component.

In order to be able to rank the professors by their scores, I plan on using a priority queue data structure paired with a max heap for this. I also intend to use a hash table to store the data that will be extracted from the web scraping (score out of 5, name, difficulty, department, total amount of ratings, and percentage who would repeat the course). However, if I am unable to do this, I'd likely store the data in a dictionary.

Some classes I would include (but are not limited to) are the max_heap class that includes heapify in the case where I want extract the highest n scores and a hash table class that includes double hashing in case the keys clash. As for functions, I plan to implement a main home screen that the user can interact with. They have the option to return the top n professors in UT (regardless of their department), filter it so that it shows the top n for the specified department, return a list of professors in a specified department along with their scores, return a top n list of professors in a specific department based on their difficulty, search up a professor by name and see their score, difficulty, department, etc, and any more (or less depending on how laborous it is) if I am able to handle it. Any professors with a total number of ratings equating to zero won't be included in the final dataset (for good reasons). I'd also discard any professor scores if they have less than 5 reviews since their ratings are likely to be skewed.



TEST CASES

In order to test the correctness of the software, I would ensure that all the data values are correct for the professor and that the hash table is storing the data in the correct bucket (or once again, if I use a dictionary that each key and value are matched properly). I'd probably cross-check RMP ratings and values with the value generated in the .csv to make sure the web scraper was successful.

As for test cases created from unittesting, it'll be more challenging to develop since this project depends on webscraping and calling the data in an easier-to-access way.



EXPECTATIONS

For now, I expect the software to be very elementary since it's only able to generate rankings and organize the data by the values
obtained. However, I do expect the ranking to be accurate, especially if a handful of professors get 5's across the board. However,
this only tends to UT Austin professors (although I haven't tested if it can be used with another school), and since RMP isn't an official university website, the amount of professors on there is dependent on the students who write reviews for them, so there will 
be many professors who are not included in the dataset.

Additionally, past professors who no longer work at UT will also be present on the board, and any professors who have transferred from 
another university to UT and hasn't had that information updated on RMP won't be included in the count. Unfortunately, professor Teymourian is a part of that statistic since it shows up that he is a professor at Boston University. However, I went ahead and manually added him at the end of the .csv file provided since I was curious where he ranked (though running the webscraper won't produce that same result).

Also, RMP scores are not the most accurate indication of how "good" a professor truly is since everyone is entitled to their
own opinions and experiences. That being said, RMP tags a number onto these professors, and that is what I'm going to be analyzing
and sorting through. Consider this my little disclaimer.


NOTES

The web scraper itself requires a little help from the user (just clicking X at the bottom banner ad once). The other large pop-up ad and cookies popup have been dealt with in the code. I have run a test on the webscraper to make sure it works (although it took roughly 40-50 minutes before I was given back the file with the information I scraped. For time's sake, I have uploaded it under the name "professors.csv". This file was created on November 12, 2023 at 3:10 AM, so a few ratings might change between the interval of its creation and the date of the project presentation.

Also, while running the webscraper on terminal, sometimes the page rendering would time out and raise the TimeoutException. However, I just tried to run it again without changing anything and it worked (most of the time). It's quite finnicky like that.

I noticed too that the number that shows how many professors are at the university when the url is clicked (~ 4700) is inaccurate to how many are actually present. I thought it was an issue with my web scraper, but I tested in on a smaller scale (filtered it to a department with less professors in it) and physically counted the data and realized there was a mismatch between the two numbers.

